+++
bio = ""
date = "2016-07-12T15:52:22+02:00"
id = "linar"
interests = ["Ocean mixing" "Water mass modification" "Internal waves" "Canadian Arctic Archipelago" "Sea ice"]
name = "Lina Rotermund"
portrait = "portrait/Lina_Saglek.jpg"
short_bio = "Graduate Student"
short_name = "Lina"
title = "Lina M. Rotermund"

[[social]]
    icon = "envelope"
    icon_pack = "fa"
    link = "mailto:lina.rotermund@dal.ca"

[[social]]
    icon = "google-scholar"
    icon_pack = "ai"
    link = "https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=TUivWWAAAAAJ&hl=en"

[[social]]
    icon = "github"
    icon_pack = "fa"
    link = "//github.com/LMR19"

[[education]]
    course = "B.Sc. combined honours in Physics and Oceanography"
    institution = 'Dalhousie University'
    year = 2016

[[education]] 
    course = "M.Sc. in Physics (Ocean Physics)"
    institution = 'University of Victoria'
    year = 2019

[[education]] 
    course = "Ph.D. in  Physical  Oceanography"
    institution = 'Dalhousie University'
    year = "in progress"

[[organizations]]
    name = "Dalhousie University"
    role = "Graduate Student"

+++
I joined the Dalhousie Ocean Dynamics Group (DODG) in September 2020, when I began my PhD under the supervision of Dr. Ruth Musgrave and Dr. Clark Richards. 

My  research examines the processes that modify water masses passing through the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, specifically within Barrow Strait, which is included in the Tallurutiup Imanga National Marine Conservation Area. Oceanic, sea ice, and atmospheric properties have been intermittently monitored since 1998 at five locations spanning the channel by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada. These measurements are used to investigate the processes that lead to water mass modification, including mixing through internal waves generated by tides interacting with the variable seafloor topography or by wind, and on surface processes such as formation of cold, salty or low-salinity waters as sea ice grows or melts. 
